# Man Page

**db2qthelp** is a DocBook to QtHelp converter. 

## Synopsis

```console
db2qthelp [-h] [-c FILE] [-i INPUT] [-d DESTINATION] [-a APPNAME]
          [--css-definition CSS_DEFINITION] [--generate-css-definition]
          [--qhp-template QHP_TEMPLATE] [--generate-qhp-template]
          [-Q QT_PATH] [-X XSLT_PATH] [--version]
```

## Description

**db2qthelp** is implemented in [Python](https://www.python.org/). It is started on the command line.

**db2qthelp** processes the input given using the **--input *&lt;INPUT&gt;*** (or **-i *&lt;INPUT&gt;*** for short). If a .xml document is given, it will be converted into HTML chunks using xsltproc, first. If a folder is given, **db2qthelp** assumes it will include already chunked HTML output will collect these files. If a .html document is given, **db2qthelp** assumes it a single HTML document generated by xsltproc and will split it into chunks internally.

**db2qthelp** stores intermediate and final files into the folder "qtdocs". The output folder can be set using the option **--destination *&lt;FOLDER&gt;*** (or **-d *&lt;FOLDER&gt;*** for short).

The application name can be set using the option **--app-name *&lt;APP_NAME&gt;*** (or **-s *&lt;APP_NAME&gt;*** for short), the default is "na".

**db2qthelp** adds a style sheet to the HTML chunks. A custom style sheet file can be set using the option **--css-definition *&lt;CSS_DEFINITION&gt;***. The used default can be exported by setting the option **--generate-css-definition**. The written file will be named as given in the option **--css-definition**, or "template.css" by default. After writing the file, **db2qthelp** will end.

The used .qhp template can be exported using the option **--generate-qhp-template**. It will be named "template.qhp" per default, or as defined by the option **--qhp-template *&lt;QHP_TEMPLATE&gt;***. Again, **db2qthelp** will end after writing the file. Use **--qhp-template *&lt;QHP_TEMPLATE&gt;*** to define a qhp template to load.

The options **--xslt-path *&lt;XSLT_PATH&gt;*** (or **-X *&lt;XSLT_PATH&gt;*** for short) and **--qt-path *&lt;QT_BINARIES_PATH&gt;*** (or **-Q *&lt;QT_BINARIES_PATH&gt;*** for short) set the paths to the xsltproc and the QT Help executables, respectively.

Per default, **db2qthelp** will write the generated files to the folder qtdocs. You may choose a different output folder using the __--destination _&lt;FOLDER&gt;___ (or __-d _&lt;FOLDER&gt;___ for short) option.

**db2qthelp** options can be stored in a configuration file whic is read using the option **--config *&lt;CONFIG_FILE&gt;*** (or **-c *&lt;CONFIG_FILE&gt;*** for short). The option **--help** prints the help screen. The option **--version** prints the version information.


## Examples

```shell
db2qthelp -i userdocs.xml
```

Generates Qt Help files by processing the DocBook book ```userdocs.xml```. The default CSS style sheets will applied, the used binaries are assumed to be in the path.

```shell
db2qthelp -i userdocs/ --css-definition my_style.css
```

Will collect the HTML files located in the folder ```userdocs```, apply the CSS located in ```my_style.css```, and build the Qt Help files from all files found in the given folder.


## Command line arguments

The script can be started on the command line with the following options:

* **--config *&lt;FILE&gt;*** / **-c *&lt;FILE&gt;***: Reads the named configuration file
* **--input *&lt;INPUT&gt;*** / **-i *&lt;INPUT&gt;***: Defines the DocBook HTML document to parse
* **--destination *&lt;DESTINATION&gt;* / **-d *&lt;DESTINATION&gt;***: Sets the output folder
* **--appname *&lt;APPNAME&gt;*** / **-a *&lt;APPNAME&gt;***: Sets the name of the application
* **--css-definition *&lt;CSS_DEFINITION&gt;***: Defines the CSS definition file to use
* **--generate-css-definition**: If set, a CSS definition file is generated
* **--qhp-template *&lt;QHP_TEMPLATE&gt;***: Defines the QtHelp project (.qhp) template to use
* **--generate-qhp-template**: If set, a QtHelp project (.qhp) template is generated
* **--qt-path *&lt;QT_PATH&gt;*** / **-Q *&lt;QT_PATH&gt;***: Sets the path to the Qt binaries
* **--xslt-path *&lt;XSLT_PATH&gt;*** / **-X *&lt;XSLT_PATH&gt;***: Sets the path to xsltproc
* **--help** / **-h**: show this help message and exit
* **--version**: show program's version number and exit
